The three emotions I felt were most prominently displayed were fear, sadness, and bravery. Fear is portrayed in the Civil War video because the protagonist is so scared of the enemy artillery fire that he just lays on the ground and pretends like he is dead. Sadness is portrayed in the World War II video through the emotions seen on the boys face as the commander/officer lies on the ground and dies. Lastly, bravery is portrayed in the World War I video because despite all the soldiers knowing that leaving the trench and charging is practically suicide, they do it anyways because they were ordered to do so.
All three of the videos I watched portrayed war as a scary and deadly place. In all of the clips people die and many others are hurt either physically (Civil War and WWI videos), or emotionally (WWII video). However, one slight difference between the clips is that in both the Civil War and WWI videos people seem to die for no reason, whereas in the WWII video the commander/officer seems to die a heroic death.
I think that Americans are interested in war stories because they bring with them a sense of wonder and heroism that you can’t find elsewhere. Many Americans have no idea what being in war is like, however, many things are said about war on the news and just during conversations in general. Due to this there seems to be a sense of wonder that comes along with war and thus people like to listen to war stories. On top of this there is also herotisim that comes with many war stories/movies, and who doesn’t like a good old fashioned hero?
I would define heroism as doing the right thing despite personal harm it may cause. This is seen in the WWII video when the commander/officer dies. Although in the clip you don’t see how he got shot, it can be inferred that he did something brave/heroic based off the facial expressions of the other soldiers near him. This makes him heroic because he risked everything, including his life, to do what was right. Patriotism is the act of being devoted to your country no matter what. I believe patriotism is highlighted in the WWI video because despite the soldiers knowing that they would almost certainly die if they pushed on, they did it anyway because that is what their country ordered them to do.

Jimmy Cross is a good man because he sincerely cares about his soldiers. At the beginning of the chapter it becomes known that Jimmy Cross feels responsible for all the soldiers he commands. After Lavender dies (one of Cross’ soldiers), Cross feels personally responsible. “When Kiowa explained how Lavender died, Lieutenant Cross found himself trembling. He tried not to cry. With his entrenching tool, which weighed 5 pounds, he began digging a hole in the earth. He felt shame. He hated himself” (O’Brien 15). This passage amplifies how Cross feels about the death of Lavender. Cross is so sad and angry about his death that he goes as far as not only feeling shameful, but even hating himself for not preventing it somehow.
Cross is also a good man because he leads his soldiers no matter what he is personally going through. He feels as though him leading is the best way to keep them safe. Thus, despite his personal issues he continues to lead his soldiers. “Lieutenant Jimmy Cross led his men into the village of Than Khe.” (O’Brien 15) This passage shows that even though Jimmy is struggling with his own thoughts about Marhta, he still puts them aside to help his men. He also stayed strong while leading his men, trying to show them that they also should be strong. This in turn makes him a good person because he’s trying to help them and be supportive, despite his own issues. He understands that everyone is battling with their own personal struggles like him, but he believes they will get through it together as a team.
